.. _section-readme:

MSMS - README
================================================================================

aka. Mighty Server Management System 😉

**MSMS** is a server management system based on |tool_ansible| IT automation tool
and other open-source utilities designed to create ready to use and easy to
extend server management workflow with following key features:

  * Local installation of |tool_ansible| and all other utilities within `virtual environment <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`__.
  * Full power of |tool_ansible| with customized preconfigured environment.
  * Batteries included: ready-to-use base set of server management roles.
  * Role management based on |tool_git| `submodules <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules>`__ (installation, upgrading).
  * Built-in documentation based on |tool_sphinx|.
  * Autogenerated server inventory documentation based on |tool_sphinx|.
  * Control utility based on |tool_make|.
  * Separated server inventory configuration versioned with |tool_git|.
  * Support for multi administrator workflow based on |tool_git|.

For description of the **MSMS** architecture please refer to section :ref:`section-readme-overview`
below, or to more thorough :ref:`section-overview` manual page.

**Table of contents:**

* :ref:`section-readme-prerequisites`
* :ref:`section-readme-overview`
* :ref:`section-readme-usage`
* :ref:`section-readme-next`
* :ref:`section-readme-author`


.. _section-readme-prerequisites:

Prerequisites
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The only prerequisite for successfull installation is the presence of following
packages on your system:

* make
* python3
* python3-venv

Make sure you have all of these installed with command similar to this::

    apt install make python3 python3-venv

For installation instructions please refer to section :ref:`section-readme-usage`
below.


.. _section-readme-overview:

Quick overview
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Following ASCII chart provides the quick overview of the architecture of the **MSMS**
system.

.. code-block:: shell

    +-------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | MSMS (.git)                                                       |
    |                                                                   |
    | bin               +---------------------------------------------+ |
    | doc               | INVENTORY (.git)                            | |
    | lib               |                                             | |
    | spool             | docs        +-----------------------------+ | |
    | venv              | group_vars  | ROLES                       | | |
    | Makefile          | group_files | +-------------------------+ | | |
    | ansible.cfg       | host_vars   | | role_1 (.git;submodule) | | | |
    | conf.py           | host_files  | +-------------------------+ | | |
    | documentation.rst | user_files  | +-------------------------+ | | |
    | README.rst        | playbooks   | | role_2 (.git;submodule) | | | |
    |                   | hosts       | +-------------------------+ | | |
    |                   |             | ...                         | | |
    |                   |             | +-------------------------+ | | |
    |                   |             | | role_N (.git;submodule) | | | |
    |                   |             | +-------------------------+ | | |
    |                   |             +-----------------------------+ | |
    |                   +---------------------------------------------+ |
    +-------------------------------------------------------------------+

The outer box is the **MSMS** system itself. It is composed of some executable
utilities, documentation pages, master Makefile etc. It is designed to be a
standalone package independent of any particular local requirements. It resides
in its own |tool_git| repository.

The key component is the *inventory* subdirectory, which contains all specific
configurations. |tool_ansible| users will immediately recognize the ``group_vars``
and ``host_vars`` directories, which contain server environment configurations. There
are also some additional directories, most noteworthy being the *roles* directory
containing all installed roles required for that particular setup. Roles are
installed as |tool_git| submodules of the whole *inventory* repository. The
*inventory* repository itself is however NOT installed as a submodule of the
master **MSMS** |tool_git| repository, it is intentionally installed as a loose
plugin to separate tool/code from configuration.

This architecture enables separate development of the **MSMS** system features,
separate development and management (installation, upgrading, uninstallation) of
|tool_ansible| roles and keeping all server environment configurations (*inventory*)
in version control system. The use of |tool_git| also enables collaboration
of multiple administrators.

Following ASCCI chart depicts expected usage of **MSMS** system:

.. code-block:: shell

        +--------------------+
        | MSMS               |
        | -----------------+ |               +----------+
    WS1 | |inventory (.git)| +------+        |          |
        | +----------------+ |      |     +->+ SERVER_1 |
        +--------------------+      |     |  |          |
                                    |     |  +----------+
                  ^                 |     |
                  |                 |     |
                  v                 v     |
                                  XXXXXX  +      +----------+
          +----------------+   XXXX    XXXXXX    |          |
    SHARE |inventory (.git)|   XX INTERNET  X+-->+ SERVER_2 |
          +----------------+    XX       XXXX    |          |
                                 XXXXXXXXX+      +----------+
                  ^                 ^     |
                  |                 |     |
                  v                 |     |  +----------+
                                    |     |  |          |
        +--------------------+      |     +->+ SERVER_3 |
        | MSMS               |      |        |          |
        | -----------------+ |      |        +----------+
    WS2 | |inventory (.git)| +------+
        | +----------------+ |
        +--------------------+

Each admin is working from his own workstation (WS). They exchange server inventory
configurations via remote shared Git repository and each is communicating directly
with each managed server.


.. _section-readme-usage:

Basic usage
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Installation process is pretty straightforward, the |tool_git| takes care of that.

If you are starting from scratch please follow these instructions to bootstrap
fresh **MSMS** installation::

    # Prepare workspace.
    $ mkdir ~/Ansible
    $ cd ~/Ansible

    # Get the MSMS codebase with Git.
    $ git clone https://github.com/honzamach/msms.git msms-local
    $ cd msms-local

    # Display built-in make help to review available commands.
    $ make
    # OR explicitly:
    $ make help

    # Setup fresh server management environment.
    $ make msms-setup

    # Activate server management environment before executing any playbooks.
    $ . ./venv/bin/activate
    $ make msms-on

    # In case you are interested install default set of roles.
    $ make roles-install-default

    # Generate and view documentation locally for your convenience.
    $ make docs

Another option is to start working on existing server management environment
created perhaps by one of your coworkers. In that case please follow these
installation instructions::

    # Prepare workspace.
    $ mkdir ~/Ansible
    $ cd ~/Ansible

    # Get the MSMS codebase with Git.
    $ git clone https://github.com/honzamach/msms.git msms-local
    $ cd msms-local

    # Display built-in make help to review available commands.
    $ make
    # OR explicitly:
    $ make help

    # Load existing server environment configurations from shared remote Git repository.
    $ make msms-load META_URL=git_repository_url

    # Activate server management environment before executing any playbooks.
    $ . ./venv/bin/activate
    $ make msms-on

    # Generate and view documentation locally for your convenience.
    $ make docs

At this point you should have working **MSMS** installation.

Next you may wish to perform some of the following tasks:

1. Install additional existing role from any |tool_git| repository::

    $ make role-install ROLE_URL=https://github.com/honzamach/ansible-role-cleanup.git ROLE_NAME=honzamach.cleanup

2. Create brand new role::

    $ make role-create

3. Execute Ansible playbooks as necessary::

    $ ansible-playbook --ask-vault-pass role_accounts.yml
    $ ansible-playbook --ask-vault-pass role_...
    $ ansible-playbook --ask-vault-pass playbook_full.yml
    $ make play-full

When you make any changes in your ``inventory`` do not forget to commit and
push your local server environment configuration changes to your upstream
shared repository, so your changes are available to your coworkers::

    $ make msms-commit
    $ make msms-push

Always kep the **MSMS** system and server environment configurations up-to date::

    $ make msms-upgrade

Disable the server management environment when you are done::

    $ make msms-off
    $ deactivate


.. _section-readme-next:

Where to next
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* For full description of the **MSMS** architecture please refer to :ref:`section-overview`
  manual page.
* For full description of the **MSMS** usage please refer to :ref:`section-usage`
  manual page.
* For list and documentation of all currently installed roles please refer to :ref:`section-roles`
  manual page.


.. _section-readme-author:

Author and license
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

| *Copyright:* (C) since 2019 Honza Mach <honza.mach.ml@gmail.com>
| *Author:* Honza Mach <honza.mach.ml@gmail.com>
|
| Use of this package is governed by the MIT license, see LICENSE file.
|
